[Music]
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals and their use of scantily clad
women nude women women in bikinis etc as
a political prop it's an issue that
different people have responded to in
different ways famously Gary France
aione
quit the organisation he quit petaa
because he said he couldn't compromise
with this I've seen him make various
statements to the effect that
how can you oppose the exploitation of
animals when you're still engaging in
the exploitation of women my perspective
on this is I know a little bit more
sex-positive a little bit more
open-minded and a little bit more
forgiving but the fact the matter is
peda has made themselves a laughingstock
in so many ways and I know this is just
one of them but peda remains one of the
most influential vegan and animal rights
agencies in the world and that's not
going to change why because of money
pedda has an unimaginable amount of
money and they're not running out
anytime soon
so they can fail and fail and fail and
basically just take millions of dollars
out of the bank and mount another
campaign and fail again and our role in
the movement is to try to learn from
both their successes and their failures
but let me tell you something in looking
at the sexiest vegan in competition for
I do see some differences from prior
years it seems that it has less to do
with sex and sexiness than ever before
I'll read you one of the descriptions
here this woman quote is a health and
physical education teacher who
frequently incorporates vegan living
into her lesson plans
she went vegan two years ago on Earth
Day because she believes it's the
greatest action that we can take to
ensure personal health and the health of
planet as a gate woman she's familiar
with the power structures and
inequalities that threaten the freedom
of animals everywhere and speaks up for
animals in all areas of her life
next contestant quote this woman is a
sergeant first class in the US Army and
in her work as a recruiter for the Army
National Guard she speaks to people
about joining the army and the benefits
of going vegan
she always has pet uh pamphlets at the
ready to hand out her husband daughter
and son her whole fecund and she shares
its twitter account with her daughter to
advocate for the animals I'm not
insulting the particular people who are
contestants in this competition when I
say that there has been absolutely no
attempt to make the competition for
sexiest vegan in any way sexy they are
given one small photograph each and I
think none of them are sexy again
regardless of whether or not the person
is attractive and as you can tell from
the text I've just quoted what's being
said about them the basis for the
competition what you're supposed to be
voting based on obviously has absolutely
nothing to do with health let alone sex
appeal
now I just remind you what are
considered very tawdry Beauty
competitions like Miss America this kind
of beauty pageant those are not strictly
about who is sexy or sex appeal all of
them have some pretensions to being a
competition to win a position as a
spokesperson a position in leading
charities and other moral causes a
certain kind of advocacy and above all
else they justify their existence these
pageants in terms of being a scholarship
competition providing scholarships for
the young women to go to university of
some kind so there are actually criteria
other than beauty and other than sex
appeal beauty being I think
distinct from sexiness in a lot of these
competitions but People for the Ethical
Treatment of Animals have dug themselves
into the worst kind of hole here because
this started off being about sex and now
it's become the worst kind of apologetic
and yell yet self-congratulatory
embarrassment for the organization
should this be an award for I don't know
the most morally superior vegan for the
best vegan activist for the most
influential or inspirational vegan
activist that would be a totally
different award if the point of this
kind of I don't know tawdry display I
mean it may be in bad taste you know
beauty pageants may be in bad taste to
say something is evil is very different
from just saying hey this may be tacky
but if the point of this tawdry display
was to say vegans can be sexy too I
think it's important and worthwhile to
point out that at this point
pedda is even failing at that and above
all else I've got a refer back to the
subject matter of the video I uploaded
immediately before this one with all
these things there's a point of
diminishing returns maybe there was some
impact the first time petted did one of
these sexy vegan competitions or sexy
vegan photo shoots or had maybe the very
first time they had Pamela Anderson
posed nude to express her outrage
against the fur industry whatever the
vegan cause that they was maybe the
first time there was a little bit of an
impact the second time the tenth time
the 20th time you're gonna do this every
year
[Music]
we're way past the point of diminishing
returns on this betta the veganism has
to change and this this this has to
change too
[Music]